**1.**       **How you have performed against your KPI’s and your top 3 achievements and milestones.  
<br/>**Made recommendations to leadership on the structure of the data teams which have resulted in a more focused streamlined delivery of work through increments.

Successfully introduced and implemented agile ways of working across the three data squads.

Teams were aligned on the scrum practices and events effectively.

Shepherded the teams through an increment, achieving good delivery targets.

**2.**       **What changed throughout the year – both success and challenges.  
<br/>**

Personnel changes will require that I navigate carefully within the SDI Data space. The new product owner in this space will require support and guidance from in the upcoming increment.

Chamindra has also been tasked as a point of contact for the Helios project within SDI. He will be monitoring the execution of the work within his team for the executive leader within that space.  
<br/>Teams I work with struggle with the coordination and management of dependencies. These challenges occur due a lack of clarity of the roles and requirements of dependent teams. I will be working with my teams and other IMs to 

**3.**       **How your behaviours supported our values and results.**

My focus has always been in bringing the teams I work with together and to give them autonomy in developing their ways of working. I support them through the stakeholder management process by making sure that their work is visible to management and stakeholders. I model the win together and care for all values 

**4.**       **Future focus areas and what support and development you would like going forward.**

With changes to the Matrix team there will be support required for the new PO and the team. I will be  helping the team through the forming stage and guide them through delivery priorities with a particular focus on ensuring the team is keeping upcoming milestones.

Musketeers team will need more support with specific focus on the communication of the changing priorities through the increment.

The teams I will be working with will be providing a regular showcase for the data stakeholders. I will be supporting the teams through this process.