I look into their eyes... those young innocent eyes. So full of potential, so many hopes and dreams. I wonder whether this is how my parents felt, the realisation that your future is in them. I watch then grow up ... almost too soon in front of my eyes. I watch with pride for their achievements, hope for their future and trepidation for what that may be. What world are we leaving for them? Can we change things for the better? Are we doing enough to prepare them? What type of world will they face? 

World is not what we grew up in. Information at their fingertips, always connected, spied on by faceless corporates with each of us being mere dollar signs in in their eyes. It's a world where they are bombarded by information from all sides, all sources, truth and lies and all the grey in between. How do we teach them to be discerning, to be sceptical, view and read with their brains switched on. 

I look into my childhood and remember the freedom we had as children. To be free to explore on our own, to wander the neighbourhood without fear to climb trees and slide down muddy hills. Those walks home after school in monsoonal showers and baking humidity (who thought white uniforms for school children was a good idea??). I remember how my father juggled his work and family, being away most of the week but making sure to be present when he was home. How they showed us the value of education (something not realised by those young minds) I remember how my mother managed two teenage boys juggling being a full time teacher with being mother, daughter and wife. I remember being surrounded by family, both immediate and extended. Playing with grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins, second cousins. I remember great family holidays, safaris with deer and wild elephants, swims in lakes and ice cold streams long drives with home made sandwiches and wonderful family gatherings. I reflect now how these were the bedrock moments in my life. How those foundations have given me the values of family and friendship today. I reflect on how in today's busy ever connected world where all of us are time poor and run off our feet, how we could give our children those moments. 

I am thankful that I am among the lucky to be surrounded by family so far from where we were born. I'm thankful that my boys are loved by grandparents, aunts, uncles and all those extended family that gave me those memories. I am thankful that i have friends and family who carry the value of family and the culture of our land that my children are getting best of both worlds east and west. We can only do our best, to give our best for them. We can only watch out for the pitfalls and help them through the difficult moments give them strength and support for the future. For those young innocent eyes are our legacy our future our hopes and dreams.