The light of a thousand sons

Silence, emptyness, the void...so was humanities view of the vastness of space. Messages and probes were sent seeking out the colour of new life. Telescopes sampled spectrums of distant worlds, robots dug in the harsh environments of other worlds, sampled rocks and soil in search of the conditions for sustaining life as they knew it. The signs of human activities were being streamed into the void, a beacon of life in the void of the galaxy. Radio and televison waves travelled across the galaxy at the speed of light much like a pebble in the pond. It took 500 hundred years for humanties activities to be noticed. For many in the galaxy these "Terrans" represented an improbability, a sentient space faring species from a world with gravity twice the galactic average, evolving out of a world of predators with seemingly little armor or biological evolutionary weapons much of the galaxy's spacefaring life evolved from prey species with and viewed this new species with predatory lineage with fear and trepedation. Humanities history betrayed their violent tendencies, countless unmentioned wars and violence, worlds wars. The resources wars prompted by the climate changes during the 2100s saw the terran world come to the brink of a third world war. It was only the perfection of the fusion drive that halted the grim reapers scythe.

The 22nd century saw technolgy progress in leaps and bounds. Untethered by the restrictions of a single planets resources, the colonisation of the solar system and beyond would begin with earnest. FTL technology was the breakthrough that saw the Terrans emerge on the galactic stage. It was unfortunate for them that the nearest spacefaring civilisation was the cantankerous and aggressive Xeelee. The Xeelee would resemble an armoured lizard with horns not so far from the prehistoric triceraptops in bipedal form. The Xeelee evolved from an environment not dis-simillar to prehistoric earth. A warm planet with gravity that favoured for the evolution of an armoured form. This aggressive warrior race had proven to be a thorn in the galaxy and all it was their relative isolation that prevented the Xeelee from aggressive expansion. the core worlds were thankful that the Xeelee chose to rule their corner of the galaxy and used thier diplomacy and trade to ensure that the Xeelee's thirst for expansion was kept in check.

the first human ship to encroach Xeelee space was the scientific explorer Aurora. The Aurora were on a mapping mission in search of resources and human habitable planets and systems.

Aurora Captain's log

Stardate 2153.85 - The crew remains excited to be exploring uncharted space. The honor of being the first explorers in a new part of the galaxy is with this the best scientific crew in the core. While the detractors spoke loudly against this mission the confidence and hopes of the core ride with us as we venture forth.

Stardate 2153.95 - (mission clock 40 days) Rich deposits of rare metals were discovered in the moon orbiting the third plant of the Chimera system. Beacons were dropped for the mining ships that will follow. Our star maps are proving to be woefully lacking. We are forced to update them as we explore. We have been lucky so far not to have dropped out of FTL in to an unexpected gravity well.

Star date 2154.20 -