 

Sarath started at Kingswood in 1970 when he joined our year 11 class. He would have been 16 or 17 - In that first year of our 'Advanced Level' we all were in one classroom both groups Bio & Maths. A bit crowded but our class was located in the school hall near the stage on the right as you look at the stage. I think there were two more classes at the back of the school hall. So you didn't feel crowded perhaps the novelty of that experience and the excitement of being in year 11, the fact that we all have jumped over a big hurdle and the associated sense of achievement may have shrouded the bleeding obvious and even from thinking about what ideal classroom conditions are. Perhaps we didn’t care or perhaps we were contend with what's given - we would have been a bit more philosophical than we like to admit. Anyway, back to the story

In those days, a lot of traffic crossed the school hall behind the last row of our class as it was a short cut over the foot bridge to the path leading to the Principal's office and to the hostel etc. However it was mostly used by the staff during class periods and in between 'periods' and also by all and sundry at other times.

We had to be alert to passers by, any misdemeanour had to be discreet and stealthy we were. There were many (my guess is at least 50%) in the class who were new to Kingswood like Sarath P. Our class leader when it came to mischief was no other than our Kulasinghe the great who had a bag full of tricks under his sleeve. A well built jovial lad who was a good two years senior to us in age. Kulasinghe had a knack of giving nicknames that sticks for life. (නවරියන්, දුමා, තඩි දිසා and පෝල් are just a few). I believe, it was Kulasinghe, who suggested that all new comers to school have to give a self introduction and those who had the talent to serenade us with a song or two. Luckily we had more than a few who could sing very well - Sarath P, Sarath Kaduwela, Jayantha T, Karunasena were the best of the newbies. I still remember a duet sung by Jayantha T and Sarath P - Sawana ka Mahina Pawan Kare Sor.....The act was so popular, whenever there was an opportunity, the duet was performed and later on, the sound of tabla/drum was also introduced, Karunasena and or Sarath K joining in to make it even more entertaining.

I used to hang out with Sarath P after school, mostly spending time in the USIS listening to music - Sarath introduced me to Western music and we used to croon our way home. Novelty of the music must have been the reason for me to get hooked - but with the benefit of hindsight, I think it must have given me a complex, thinking I was in an elite group socially. The warm glow that started to emanate from the chest as you hum the words of songs must have been that unmistakable pang of superiority. In those days, it was the language that separated the elite from the rest in Sri Lanka, perhaps some sort of unfortunate baggage from our colonial past.

In the weekends, when I had an opportunity (more like when i got permission) I used to join Sarath in his regular visits to the Cinema to watch the latest English Movies -Those days, the Hollywood blockbusters reached our shores after a good 12 months from their initial release. I remember an episode where I had to listen (I think Sarath too had to suffer through) to a 30 or so minute disquisition delivered by my dear father when we went to him seeking his permission to go to the movies. The long lecture was on English pronunciation as I couldn't properly pronounce the name of the movie we were intending to watch - Battle of Britain. The disquisition that lasted for ever included some interesting history lessons as well, where he talked about how the success of Battle of Britain in world war 2, said to have thwarted the 'Operation Sea Lion -Hitler's plan to invade Britain. Anyway, we had to patiently wait till he finished the never ending monologue but the two teenagers thought it was excruciatingly painful having to stand and listen for 30 or so minutes as we didn't have too much time to catch the bus to be there on time for the matinee show at the Regal.