Email I sent to my work colleagues....

Mon, 11 Jul, 14:20

Hi All

Sorry I couldn’t write this earlier. It’s exactly a month since my last day at work. Thank you for the wonderful farewell party and I did say what I wanted to at the German Club, but some of you couldn’t make it so I thought of putting together a thank you note.

I will start this by thanking you all for organising the farewell lunch and for those very thoughtful gifts and the exceedingly generous gift cards. Chris, Ian and Craig thank you for your troubles in getting the whole thing organised. The venue, the food, beer and of course the company were all ‘excellent’ (Sorry Chris for the all too obvious plagiarism)

I had been with our organisation from 1996 and in a way fortunate to witness the different iterations and the numerous incarnations over the 26+ years. I started in St George as the Operations Manager of the Irrigation Project which at the time was under the purview of the State Water Projects (which was more or less the commercial arm of the Department). It was a steep learning curve for me given the kind of experience I had in Sri Lanka. Even though throughout my career in SL I have been working as a Water Resources Engineer, involving Design of Irrigation Structures, construction and operation of irrigation channels, St George issues were more to do with the issues of equity (Channel Irrigators and the River Irrigators were not seeing eye to eye on right to access – that is for another day, all I can say is that I had an interesting time chairing those regular Water Advisory Committee meetings). Anyway, after a stint of 4 years in St George, older and wiser, I moved to the head office in Brisbane. Soon after, State Water Projects was turned into SunWater – So I was an inaugural member of SunWater (and I have a coffee mug to prove it). After a couple of years, we were given the option of joining the Department and I took the opportunity to join the Rural Water Use Efficiency group and worked there for a while before joining this team – I think in those days we were called Water Infrastructure Development – and would you believe I started working on a project called “Rookwood Weir Project” – that was in 2007.

Anyway, I call this my home stretch and yes it was a long home stretch but it was a pleasant one. I learned so much from you guys and hope I have been able to impart bits here and there to advance your water knowledge. Together we have learned so much. I was lucky that I also got the opportunity to work with our excellent hydrologists in DES. I learned so much from our brilliant JV and it had been an absolute joy to work with Craig J, Cia, Sarah, Paul Harding, Matt Gooda, Paul Roe, Alma, Ged McMahon and our groundwater guru Mark Gallagher and last but not least, Alex Loy. The expertise the Queensland Hydrology group has and the excellent and the cutting edge work they have done for us has no parallel.   

Coming back to my work, I must admit that my work didn't have any semblance of monotony – not excruciatingly monotonous anyway. On the contrary, the work that I have been doing had  always given me the intellectual stimulation I was seeking. So, I was lucky that I had a good ride. The work was both challenging and also rewarding and you can’t ask for more.

During our work life, we build relationships - and you feel like your team is family. So, I truly have mixed feelings. On one hand I am happy that I am retiring after 43+ years but also sad that I am leaving a great bunch of colleagues. Anyway, at the core of our work are relationships and negotiations. The ability to negotiate is not inborn like blonde hair or straight teeth and it does not belong exclusively to the table pounders of the world. In my experience it often pays to be quiet and gracious, to listen more than talk and to have an instinct for harmony rather than conflict. And that is just a wisdom bomb from me. Humour, banter and 'tangents' in our team made everything easier. By and large we were and are a united team. Thank you everyone for being nice to me.

I immigrated to Australia in 1995 (after working in SL for nearly 17 years) because of the civil war we had in our country at the time. Leaving your home behind in search of new beginnings is an exciting prospect, sure, but it’s also one that can be overwhelming and scary. Anyway, we moved here to Australia, mainly because we wanted to give our two boys a better future and we were lucky that we chose Australia, because this is a beautiful country with so much opportunity but more importantly, because Aussies are really friendly and welcoming. I am glad that my experience in Australia is a very positive one even when anti-immigrant sentiments and populist nationalism is exploited to stoke fear in the wider population. I know, for some people, multiculturalism may sound a bit more symbolic than anything. It definitely does not have any overt recognition of its value and success but for us immigrants it is not just symbolism at all as it has had a profound impact on us. Every immigrant leaves a piece of his/her heart somewhere else but also brings a wealth of culture with them. It should not be about assimilation but should be about integration. Thank you for welcoming me with open arms – and it is just one reason I love this country I call home. (However, when Australia plays Sri Lanka in cricket, inevitably I beat myself whatever the result is. So, I am not sure whether I am a masochist or a sadist)

Both my boys are now engineers and are working in Brisbane. We now have four beautiful grandchildren, and it is fantastic that we get to see them on the weekends. Our two boys are our greatest assets and our proudest achievement. So, I believe ours is a successful immigrant story. Moreover, my brother and my sister and their families, and my mother, all live in Brisbane so we have a big extended family in Brisbane. Having an extended family around you is really good – most of the time.

I turned 60 (7 years ago). In spite or perhaps because of that I think I have found my angle of repose. We all know that as you age things change – we have to get used to the declining senses, slower reflexes and of course the inevitable infirmity. Moreover, age especially your sixties, in a way is a cultural threshold – it changes how you are seen and what we have to do in order to remain visible. So, I decided it is time to enjoy those ‘7- day Weekends’. The health scare I had in September last year sort of jolted me into reality that this could be taken away in an instant. In addition, the last two years in a way gave me a trial run at home – now we know what it is like spending 24 hours with your spouse at home. It was actually not bad, at least for me. (I am not actually sure how it is for Shyama though.)

Richard, I know you are not far behind me and that you are planning to retire soon. Your retirement is going to be the biggest loss to this Department, and I don’t think you can ever be replaced and you are truly indispensable. The knowledge that this department is going to lose is indescribable – your leadership, your vision, your dedication and passion is something that I always admired.

Craig, I have worked with you for a long time and I had the best seat watching you work. Your uncompromising manner and dedication is something I could never match. For some, you may initially come across as someone who is inflexible but guys listen, Craig is not inflexible, he actually listens to facts except when it comes to politics maybe. I don’t know how long you could continue to do this. I get exhausted just looking at you work. I wish you good health – to get back to your 2012 self so that we could play a round of golf. (I will be careful with the scorecard next time around.)

Darren, you have no peer. You made my work life so much fun with your ways, just being Darren, with your jokes. Best joke I have heard is –sorry I can’t spell it out here, but let me call it the “just you and me” joke and leave it at that. And how can I forget Golf on Sundays – I still enjoy golf on Sundays – I know you will go “I don’t know how”.

Chris, I know you keep telling me that you have been a larrikin in your younger days. Sorry, I don't believe you - I just see you as a saint. You always had time for me even it was a stupid grammar question I had. With me, you have been so generous with your time, and I don’t think it is just for me, you treat everyone the same – you just are a nice person - period. In the work side of things, you have always been my first contact when I needed to clarify anything. You always had the answers to my questions. Explaining complex concepts was second nature to you – you are informative and articulate and always have a clearer idea of the process, in particular the certitude you display gave me the confidence and the required comfort.

Russell, affable is the first word that comes to me when I see/hear your name. It has been a joy working with you. Thank you for making you available and for being patient with me when I had to winge about something or someone. Over the years you have showed your leadership qualities particularly when you were ‘directing’ us. I wish you a happy and healthy future.

Lee Rogers, it was an honour and a privilege to have had the opportunity to work with you. I have learned so much from you. We all are indebted to you for the work you have done for the Department and the State and thank you for making your services available for so long and for imparting your wisdom. The wealth of water resources related knowledge you possess has no peer – feasibility to design to construction to operation and management. I always enjoyed our rugby chats, and it is good to see the Wallabies are on the rise with the impressive young talent they are unleashing.

Emma, I remember you from your days in Paul Mills group (I believe they were called water management those days) – From early 2000 to now you have done so much, achieved so much and I can see you climbing up the corporate ladder at a faster pace than most. I wish you all the very best. Thank you for your daily jokes on Teams – I enjoyed every one of them.

Vourn, when you joined our team after, Water Commission was absorbed by the department, you brought with you a lot of energy. You kept all of us honest with your assertiveness and wit. I can’t remember a single meeting where you had nothing to say. Your enthusiastic involvement made everything lively and it was contagious. Your questions about hydrology and modelling not only showed your eagerness but also made me reassess how I communicated modelling outcomes. Our chats about motherhood and your little cutie’s antics were enlightening and hilarious at the same time. Thank you for being nice to me and for being patient with my ramblings.

Bob, I enjoyed your army stories and your passion about the Australian Defence Service and the pride that comes with your stories is unmistakable. Your workplace, health and safety discussions were unique and I always enjoyed our small team meetings – You always had something to offer to improve how we work, talk and action. Thank you for that.

Jenny, I know we haven’t had much time working together until Dawson UWSA. Dawson was not only unique but also had its own complications when it came to modelling. Thank you for supporting my work with providing the required information. I wish all the very best in your future endeavours.

Gemma, in the short period that we had I can see a rising star. My reading of you definitely leans towards you being one of those smart and hardworking cookies. You have a bright future ahead of you. Please keep doing what you do and I am sure the sky is the limit for you. I wish all the very best for you.

Ian Hanks, I’ve known you for a very long time, but until recently I haven’t had the opportunity to work with you. Goondiwindi UWSA work was the first time we had to work together. I learned a lot from working with you and your insightful questions on modelling undoubtedly improved the work and it most definitely kept me honest. Your pursuit for accuracy and precision made me reassess how compromises could be achieved. It made me question whether modelling inputs and outputs were detached from reality. Thank you for your support and understanding.

Robert, a little bit of Chinchilla and a whole lot of Dalby gave me the opportunity to work with you for a sufficiently long period of time to enable me to get a better grasp of where you stand in regard to UWSA work. You, along with Russell and Craig and your liaison with the council made my life easy, and the first cut of scenarios we developed is undoubtedly going to provide the required input into the UWSA being developed. Your jovial nature and collaborative efforts stand out, making the journey a pleasure and the destination where it needs to be. Thank you for your support and for your dry humour that kept me going.

Jo, it was an absolute pleasure to work with you. Your calm demeanour, is a feature that stood out. I also had a kinship with you given that the two of us had the only two exotic accents in the team. Hopefully our ramblings at team meetings didn’t sound too incoherent. Your cheerful jovial nature kept all of us at ease. Your contributions to RWSS’s, RWSSA’s and UWSA’s are much appreciated. Thank you for all your support over the last 15 or so years.

Peter, the last year was the time we were able to work together. I hope our efforts (both yours and mine) are not wasted. I sincerely hope that I was able to impart more than a little to help you develop and improve your modelling knowledge related to our work. I hope it was not too much too soon but was in sufficient doses at the required pace. I must admit I was amazed with the broad knowledge you have when it comes to all things engineering. You are a courteous gentleman with no single malice bone in your body and I wish you all the very best.

Ian White, indeed, Ian is a lifestyle; there are no two ways about it. That’s why I have the “Game of Thrones’ theme song as your ring-tone. You are not only a good worker but also a very good loyal friend. I know you have no hesitation in calling a spade a spade. Perhaps, you don’t keep anything close to your chest; you wear your heart on your sleeve. You get emotional and expressive because you are passionate about your work. You don’t leave a single stone unturned when you dig (pun not intended) for information. You are resourceful, hardworking and a classic example of someone who works hard when you work and plays hard when you play. I wish you all the very best in your future endeavours. I was so lucky to have had to cross paths with you in this short life of ours.

Paul Hope – Gentleman, courtesy, decent, well rounded are just a few words that come to me when I hear/see your name. I first met you during our Albert St time and I still hold my unwavered first impressions of you – knowledgeable, hardworking, resourceful and a true gentleman. It was a privilege working with you – it was Australia’s gain and England’s loss (no, it's not the Ashes). Thank you for all your help and support in the last 15 or so years. You are a gem.

Graham, you truly are a loyal friend, and a gentleman by nature. It was a pleasure to work with you and your prompt response to any question I had was a feature I valued. I still remember the impressive work you did in the Central Queensland Planning and Infrastructure framework back in the day when we all were in one team. Thank you for all your support at work but also for the encouraging words on the golf course.

After nearly 44 years of work, I can honestly say that I enjoyed my work, however it is clear to me that your family is what matters most. In the work world I may have clawed away from being a fleck to a speck but when you think back it was ultimately also a journey from obscurity to oblivion. 

Cheers

Jinaraj