**DEVELOPMENT TEAM MEETING
Round table discussion**
Torsten

- migration scripts to update the articles - craftmenship -> craftsmanship
- working with Jayden on OCAPI issues
- converted components to the component catalogue

Rupankar

- MHJ Mudbath parallel pipelines - waiting for vuestorefront detail to finalise the deployment to DEV2
- Adyen next steps determined
- SFRA session as a lunch and learn
- French language change impact areas - waiting for Taylor on this
- started on the Zonos spike

Andy

- holidays
- watch battery warnings message
- javascript cleanup in ISMLs

Fadi

- DFS donations
- Add book appointment button
- Deployment
- knowledge sharing with Torsten

Thu

- Welcome back message
- product availability story
- data layer story currently being worked on

Jake

- worked with Rupankar on deployment pipelines - synced with Mudbath
- finalise special orders spike

**Discussions about the release process**

Release day - keep it on Wednesday as timings mean this is the most idea...

Create a release as separate story within the sprint - **ACTION** \- CHAMI

have a cutoff day for the release - all PRs / stories need to be finalised by this day - WHAT day needs to be discussed

***What is taking the time in the release?***

- metadata generation is labour intensive but is hard to automate
- look to areas that can be automated - diff comparison etc... with developer involvement - **ACTION** TECH DEBT story needed here
- PRs - block off time in the morning to allow dev's to focus? - CRO Admin?? - no... we should be able to make time in our day
- we have a minimum 2 dev approval policy on PRs
- we need to have ownership as a team on servicing PRs

Work allocation within the team - **ACTION** As part of the stand up on day 1 of the sprint... DEVs get together to discuss who's best suited to pick up specific tickets in the sprint.